# Example 004 Jump to a label

Jumps between different labels using the `jmp` instruction

## Description

In this example, we jump between different labels (symbols / memory addresses). The example itself is quite useless, but it showcase a very important concept in programming which is the ability to change the flow of execution.

## Notes

### Instruction / Op-code

The x86 architecture has a set of instructions that you can use to perform operations. The original 8088 instruction set included 81 instructions, and we have already used a couple of these in example 1, 2 and 3. These are `mov` which copies data from one location to another and `int` which calls an interrupt, and now `jmp` which transfers execution from one memory address to another. All of the above-mentioned instructions are so-called __general purpose instructions__. These instructions handles things such as data transfer, arithmetic, logic operations, control flow and more. These instructions operate on memory and the general purpose registers. See vol. 1, ch. 5.1 and 7 in the [intel manual][intel] for more information.

_An op-code (Operation Code) is an encoding of the instruction as read by the CPU. These are sometimes used in place of each other._

### Instruction pointer (EIP)

The instruciton pointer (EIP) register contains, as described in vol.1, ch. 3.5 of the [intel manual][intel], the offset in the current code segment for the next instruction to be executed. The EIP register cannot be modified directly, but can be changed indirectly by using control flow instructions, such as `jmp`. For a 64-bit system, it is the RIP register that holds the instruction pointer.

### jmp

`jmp` is a x86 instruction that lets you jump from one place in your code to another, effectively changing the flow of execution. The jump is unconditional and simply *"transfers the order of execution by changing the instruction pointer"* (see the [x86 instruction wiki][instructions]). There also exists conditional alternatives to `jmp`, such as `jcc` (jump if condition is met), `je` (jump if equals), `jl` (jump if less) and more.

[intel]: https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/download/intel-64-and-ia-32-architectures-sdm-combined-volumes-1-2a-2b-2c-2d-3a-3b-3c-3d-and-4.html
[instructions]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JMP_(x86_instruction)